Marjana Dragicevic

As the concept became more clear, we found that our idea with the door light could be prototyped and tested with Arduino LED lights. We had user tested light and colour feedback physically and saw the opportunity to try red and green light for feedback to show if it’s booked or not digitally.

The first prototyping process was coding simple LED patterns with Arduino’s web editor. A simple on and off pattern, a simple blink, and a fade pattern. I tested these patterns on users and asked what impression they got from this, explaining the scenario of booking a room online. The on and off was understood as that something was happening “right now”, as if someone is connected, booking or un-booking. The blink was perceived as the room will be bookable soon, or time running out. The fade had impressions of both mentioned before, something happening simultaneously.

So to figure out how we could use the next steps to make them work in a prototype, I used the insights from the user testing  to try blink and fade on a larger scale with more lamps. I wanted more complex patterns, so I planned to code it with Cylon, an API that translated Arduino language to JavaScript. This would also enable me to understand API’s and JavaScript better. I then heard about a similar API called JohnnyFive (J5) that had a lot of contributions, it was more robust and easier to understand. Since I found Cylon’s documentation hard to understand I learned J5 instead. There will always be time invested in learning new things as you go in a project, but investing that time in J5 instead of Cylon was a time saving move.  I programmed patterns again and user tested it. I was interested in the feedback about the fade from the previous stage since it felt a bit unanswered, and focused my questions on what the user perceives with fade to get a deeper insight. A user mentioned a feeling of a countdown. How could I do more with this? I asked questions like: “If it was blinking, do you understand that another user is booking now?”, “if it is fading in colour x, do you understand the time is running out?”. With this I made use of the web-socket, so that the last part of the prototyping process could be tested simultaneously with finished patterns between different users, to see if my feedback from the previous stage was correct, enabling the door light to be a count down and an interactive booking feedback simply with patterns and colours.

Making use of programmed prototypes in IxD enabled me to understand requirements. The tools I used affected the project positively. Learning new tools is hard at first, but as I became more experienced the project did benefit from it, saving time since it enabled easy understanding from the user. With this I could easier connect to the user and understand what the requirements for light feedback were. The interest for digital prototyping grew with this project and made me understand that the user can actually get a feeling for the system being made, giving new insights for the project to proceed.

Prototyping with programming enabled for something big and complicated to be easy and understandable, i.e it may be hard to explain to a user with pictures and terminology that they don't understand, but feeling, looking and hearing can give them the bigger picture. To understand this and appreciate this in a project process was very giving and will benefit me as an IxD designer.


